
Reporting from quantitative data - choosing what to communicate:

For central tendency:
Should you use the mean, median, or mode? Here are some things you might consider:

Case 1_
For a list of salaries (500 employees at a company) describe the “typical” salary.
If there are outliers (eg., there are ~10 executives who each make 20 times as much money as most other employees), the mean will be more impacted by those outliers than the median.

Case 2_
For a list of salaries (500 employees at a company) describe the “typical” salary.
If there are distinct groups of employee salaries (eg., employees tend to fall into one of two categories: either low salaries or high salaries), then we might want to report two modes, rather than the mean or median — because the “middle” of these two groups is not actually a common salary.

Case 3_
For a list of rental fees, values might vary in any possible kind (from thousands of dollars to some cents).
It might be that at most two equal values exit. In this case, as often for quantitative data the mode is no good option.

Visualizing an entire distribution helps simultaneously investigate all possibilities and understand numerical summaries with more context.

Case 4_
Shop visit times during the day:
This histogram, with limits (0, 6, 12, 18, 24), helps the store manager. From 6 pm until midnight is the busiest time. Is that thetime the manager should staff the most employees?

He knows the store is busy when many people get off work, but the rush certainly doesn’t continue later than 9 pm.

The histogram can't show this, because it has only 4 bins. When plotting a histogram, it’s essential to select bins that fully capture the trends in the underlying data. Often, this will require some guessing and checking. There isn’t much of a science to selecting bin size.

How many bins do you think makes sense for this example? I would try 24 because there are 24 hours in a day.

Looking at the hourly customer count histogram was more helpful to inform staffing decisions than knowing the average time that a customer arrives at the grocery store.


CSSMO - Framework for analyzing Data on Histogramms

	C - Center (mean, median)
	S - Spread (standard deviation, interquartile range)
	S - Skew	(symmetric, left, right)
	M - Modality	(unimodal, bimodal, multimodal, uniform)
	O - Outliers	

	Notes on...
		...central tendency, there is a variation of the mean called trim_mean
			(scipy.stats.trim_mean(*data*, *trim_value*), see documentation at 			
			(https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.stats.trim_mean.html) 
			applying the mean on the trimmed dataset, is applying the mean to a dataset with less outliers,
			and can deliver a mean more similar to the  median

The five number summary:

	minimum, 
	quartile_1 
	quartile_2 
	quartile_3
	maximum


boxplot 
Visualization of:

	- median, first quartile, and third quartile of a dataset
	- length of the box for the interquartile range
	- whiskers extend from the box 1.5 times interquartile range
	- Outliers represented by dots outside of the whiskers
	- Boxplots useful for comparing the spread of multiple datasets

Boxplot vs Histograms

	- The spread of the data (Modality, skewness,)
	- The central tendency of the data (boxplot only median, histo median am mean and their relation due to skewness)
	- Your ability to compare different datasets (boxplots allow for direct comparison on five numbers summary)
	- The number of data points in each dataset (only histos, boxplots don't display any information about this)

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Reporting from categorical data - choosing what to communicate:

Orinal categories have an order but  unequeal spacing.
When translating ordinal categories into integers, those integers have equal spacing. The translation allows to use order of categories for calculating a statistic like the median - which relies only on ordering, not spacing.
The attribute of equal-spacing from translated integers does not represent categories, therefore statstics like the mean, based on equal spacing are not applicable to ordinal data.

Visualize Categorical Data:

Visualization diffs in quantitative (histogram) vs categorical (bar chart)

Bar charts are used for categorical variables, while histograms are used for quantitative data.
Histograms must always be arranged in a specific order because they represent a range of numerical values. For a bar chart, each bar represents frequencies of category variables within a category. Unless the variable is ordinal, the bars could be arranged in any order.


Visualizing frequencies or proportions within a single categorical variable:

Use cases for a...
...Bar Chart:
 - distinct categories
 - displaying frequencies of categories
 - width equall for all bars,
	but length and area are proportional to counts
issues:
	- do not display part whole relationships
	- better for comparison across values


...Pie Charts:

 - arc length and area of each sector are proportional to the percentage of the circle it makes up.
 - Display part_whole_relationship:
	The sum of each sector adds up to 100 percent.

issues with pie_charts:
 - too many sectors make it hart to compare and to 

Use case selection:

USE_CASE_1
_intrachart comparison (comparing values in a plot with each other)

bar_charts:

pie_charts:

USE_CASE_2
_interchart comparison (comparing values across multiple plots):

bar charts:
	+invariant start of figure, allows for comparison, variation only inlength
pie_charts:
	- varying start of figure, as one wedge gets larger, the next wedge starts at another angle.




Understand when to use which of the two visualizations given dataset and a specific problem you are looking to solve

Understand the pros and cons of each visualization when attempting to interpret findings

Where can y